.TH "BSESCM" "1" "2011\-05\-02" "Revision 307" "Testbit Wiki Pages"

.SH NAME

bsescm - A Guile based scheme shell for \fIBeast\fR and \fIBse\fR.

.SH SYNOPSIS

\fBbsescm\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fB--\fR] \fB...\fR

\fBbsescm\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fI<infile.bse>\fR \fB...\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBbsescm\fR is a \fIGuile\fR based scheme shell for \fIBse\fR,
the Better Sound Engine.

\fBbsescm\fR provides a shell interface to all procedures exported by the
\fIBse\fR library, so scripts are able to access the full range of functionality
provided by it, from simple playback of a \fI.bse\fR file to
full fledged automated creation or editing of synthesis networks.

Alternatively to the linked in \fIBse\fR library, the \fBbsescm\fR language interface
can also talk to a remotely running \fIBse\fR library host, for instance
\fIBeast\fR.
By operating on a remotely running \fIBse\fR core, \fBbsescm\fR can be used to script
arbitrary \fIBse\fR programs. The shell is also used directly by the \fIBse\fR library to
execute procedures on its behalf, this allows \fIBse\fR procedures to be written in scheme.

When started, \fBbsescm\fR tests whether the first non-option argument is a \fI.bse\fR
file and if the test succeeds, attempts to play the command line arguments as
\fI.bse\fR files.

.SH OPTIONS

\fBbsescm\fR follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long options starting with two dashes ('--').
.TP
\fB--bse-pipe\fR \fIinfd\fR \fIoutfd\fR
Provide the input and output communication filedescriptors for remote operation.
.PP
.TP
\fB--bse-eval\fR \fIstring\fR
Execute (eval-string \fIstring\fR) instead of going into interactive mode.
.PP
.TP
\fB--bse-enable-register\fR
Allowes registration of procedures with the \fIBse\fR core.
.PP
.TP
\fB--bse-no-load\fR
Prevent automated loading of plugins and scripts at startup time in interactive mode.
.PP
.TP
\fB--bse-no-play\fR
Prevent automated detection and playback of \fI.bse\fR file command line arguments.
.PP
.TP
\fB--g-fatal-warnings\fR
Make runtime warnings fatal (abort).
.PP
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Describe command line options and exit.
.PP
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--version\fR
Display version and exit.
.PP
.TP
\fB-n\fR=\fInicelevel\fR
Execute with priority \fInicelevel\fR, this option only takes effect for the root suid wrapper 'beast'.
.PP
.TP
\fB-N\fR
Disables renicing to execute with existing priority.
.PP
.TP
\fB--bse-latency\fR=\fIuseconds\fR
Set the allowed synthesis latency for \fIBse\fR in milliseconds.
.PP
.TP
\fB--bse-mixing-freq\fR=\fIfrequency\fR
Set the desired synthesis mixing frequency in Hz.
.PP
.TP
\fB--bse-control-freq\fR=\fIfrequency\fR
Set the desired control frequency in Hz, this should be much smaller than the synthesis mixing frequency to reduce CPU load. The default value of approximately 1000 Hz is usually a good choice.
.PP
.TP
\fB--bse-pcm-driver\fR \fIdriver-conf\fR
.TP
\fB-p\fR \fIdriver-conf\fR
This options results in an attempt to open the PCM driver \fIdriver-conf\fR when playback is started. Multiple options may be supplied to try a variety of drivers and unless \fIdriver-conf\fR is specified as "\fBauto\fR", only the drivers listed by options are used. Each \fIdriver-conf\fR consists of a driver name and an optional comma seperated list of arguments attached to the driver withan equal sign, e.g.: \fB-p oss=/dev/dsp2,rw -p auto\fR
.PP
.TP
\fB--bse-midi-driver\fR \fIdriver-conf\fR
.TP
\fB-m\fR \fIdriver-conf\fR
This option is similar to the \fB--bse-pcm-driver\fR option, but applies to MIDI drivers and devices. It also may be specified multiple times and features an "\fBauto\fR" driver.
.PP
.TP
\fB--bse-driver-list\fR
Produce a list of all available PCM and MIDI drivers and available devices.
.PP
.SS Guile Options:
.TP
\fB-l\fR \fIfile\fR
Load scheme source code from file.
.PP
.TP
\fB-e\fR \fIfunction\fR
After reading script, apply \fIfunction\fR to command-line arguments.
.PP
.TP
\fB-ds\fR
Do -s \fIscript\fR at this point (note that this argument must be used in conjuction with -s).
.PP
.TP
\fB--debug\fR
Start with debugging evaluator and backtraces enabled (useful for debugging scripts).
.PP
.TP
\fB--emacs\fR
Enable emacs protocol for use from within emacs (experimental).
.PP

The remaining Guile options stop argument processing, and pass all remaining arguments as the value of (command-line):
.TP
\fB--\fR
Stop argument processing, start in interactive mode.
.PP
.TP
\fB-c\fR \fIexpr\fR
Stop argument processing, evaluate \fIexpr\fR as a scheme expression.
.PP
.TP
\fB-s\fR \fIscript\fR
Load Scheme source from \fIscript\fR and execute as a script.
.PP


.br

.SH SEE ALSO

beast.1 <http://testbit.eu/Beast.1>,
bse.5 <http://testbit.eu/Bse.5>,
BEAST/BSE Website <http://beast.testbit.eu>,
Guile <http://www.gnu.org/software/guile/docs/>

