.TH "SFIDL" "1" "2011\-05\-02" "Revision 305" "Testbit Wiki Pages"

.SH NAME

SFIDL - SFI IDL Compiler

.SH SYNOPSIS

\fBsfidl\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIinput.idl\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBsfidl\fR generates glue code for \fIBse\fR objects and
plugins from interface definition language files.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB--help\fR [\fIbinding\fR]
Print general usage information. Or, if \fIbinding\fR was specified, print usage information for this language binding.
.PP
.TP
\fB--version\fR
Print program version.
.PP
.TP
\fB-I\fR \fIDIRECTORY\fR
Add \fIDIRECTORY\fR to include path.
.PP
.TP
\fB--print-include-path\fR
Print include path.
.PP
.TP
\fB--nostdinc\fR
Prevents standard include path from being used.
.PP
.SS Language bindings:
.TP
\fB--client-c\fR
Generate C client language binding.
.PP
.TP
\fB--client-c\fR
Generate C core language binding.
.PP
.TP
\fB--host-c\fR
Generate C host language binding.
.PP
.TP
\fB--client-cxx\fR
Generate C++ client language binding.
.PP
.TP
\fB--core-cxx\fR
Generate C++ core language binding.
.PP
.TP
\fB--plugin\fR
Generate C++ plugin language binding.
.PP
.TP
\fB--list-types\fR
Print all types defined in the idlfile. This option is used only for BSE internally to ease transition from C to C++ types.
.PP
.SS Language binding options:
.TP
\fB--header\fR
Generate header file, this is the default.
.PP
.TP
\fB--source\fR
Generate source file.
.PP
.TP
\fB--prefix\fR \fIprefix\fR
C host/client language binding option, sets the prefix for C functions. The prefix ensures that no symbol clashes will occur between different programs/libraries which are using a binding, so it is important to set it to something unique to your application/library.
.PP
.TP
\fB--init\fR \fIname\fR
Set the name of the init function for C host/core bindings.
.PP
.TP
\fB--namespace\fR \fInamespace\fR
C++ client language binding, sets the namespace to use for the code. The namespace ensures that no symbol clashes will occur between different programs/libraries which are using a binding, so it is important to set it to something unique to your application/library.
.PP
.TP
\fB--lower\fR
Select lower case identifiers in the C++ client language binding (create_midi_synth), this is the default.
.PP
.TP
\fB--mixed\fR
Select mixed case identifiers in the C++ client language binding (createMidiSynth).
.PP

.SH SEE ALSO

bsescm.1 <http://testbit.eu/Bsescm.1>,
BSE Object Reference <http://beast.testbit.eu/bse-objects>,
BSE Interface Reference <http://beast.testbit.eu/bse-interface>,
SFIDL Documentation <http://beast.testbit.eu/sfidl-manual>

