\input texinfo
@c %**start of header
@settitle BEAST - Bedevilled Audio System
@footnotestyle end
@c %**end of header

@include texiutils.texi

@docpackage{BEAST-@value{BST_VERSION}}

@unnumbered NAME
beast -- Graphical program to simulate audio synthesis and compose music.

@unnumbered SYNOPSIS
	@command{beast} [@var{OPTIONS}] [@var{FILES...}]

@unnumbered DESCRIPTION
	@beast is the BEdevilled Audio SysTem. It is a Gtk+/GNOME based program to
	simulate audio synthesis and to compose music.

	@beast comes with various synthesis modules which can be arranged in
	networks for modular synthesis. It is capable of monophonic and polyphonic
	voice processing, provides MIDI sequencer functionality and supports
	external sequencer sources. A huge set of extra modules is available through
	the support for LADSPA (Linux Audio Developer's Simple Plugin API) plugins.

	@beast{}'s underlying sound engine @bse also comes with a scheme scripting
	extension which allows for advanced non-interactive processing via
	@uref{beast-man://1/bsesh} and creation of additional GUI functionality for @beast{}.

@unnumbered OPTIONS
	@beast follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long options starting with two dashes (`-').

@table @option
@item ---devel
	Enrich the GUI with hints usefull for (script) developers
@item ---print-dir[@var{=RESOURCE}]
	Print the directory for a specific resource (e.g. `plugins' or `images').
	Giving just @option{---print-dir} without an extra argument causes @beast
	to print the list of available resources.
@item -h, ---help
	Shows a brief help message.
@item -v, ---version
	Prints out @beast and component versions and file paths.
@item ---display=@var{DISPLAY}
	X server for the GUI; see @uref{man://1/X}.
@end table

	Development Options:

@table @option
@item ---debug=@var{KEYS}
	Enable certain verbosity stages.
@item ---debug-list
	List possible debug keys.
@item -:[@var{flags}]
	This option enables or disables various debugging specific flags.
	Use of @option{-:} is not recommended, as the supported flags may
	change between versions and cause possibly harmful misbehaviour.
@end table

	Gtk+ Options:

@table @option
@item ---gtk-debug=@var{FLAGS}
	Gtk+ debugging flags to enable.
@item ---gtk-no-debug=@var{FLAGS}
	Gtk+ debugging flags to disable.
@item ---gtk-module=@var{MODULE}
	Load additional Gtk+ modules.
@item ---gdk-debug=@var{FLAGS}
	Gdk debugging flags to enable.
@item ---gdk-no-debug=@var{FLAGS}
	Gdk debugging flags to disable.
@item ---g-fatal-warnings
	Make warnings fatal (abort).
@item ---sync
	Do all X calls synchronously.
@end table

@unnumbered SEE ALSO
@uref{beast-man://1/bsesh},
@uref{beast-man://1/bse-plugin-generator}
@*
@revision{Document Revised:}
@bye
