\input texinfo
@c %**start of header
@settitle BEAST/BSE News
@c %**end of header

@include texiutils.texi

@hasbanner{large}
@navigation{navigation.xml}


@unnumbered @beast - Your Solution for Music Composition and Synthesis
@c @unnumberedsubsec @strong{Your Solution for Music Composition and Synthesis}

@multitable {IRC Channel:} {}
@item IRC Channel:
@tab	@code{#beast} on @uref{http://beast.gtk.org/wiki:GimpNet,,GimpNet}
@item Email:
@tab	@uref{http://mail.gnome.org/mailman/listinfo/beast/,, Mailing List} and @uref{http://mail.gnome.org/archives/beast/,, Archive}
@item Feedback:
@tab	Wiki 	@uref{http://beast.gtk.org/wiki:Discussion,,Discussion} and
		@uref{http://beast.gtk.org/wiki:HelpDesk,,HelpDesk} pages
@end multitable


@unnumbered What's New?
@c ----------------------------- START -----------------------------

@newsTitle{Friday 4 February 2005, From the ``I'll be back'' dept.}

Our @uref{http://beast.gtk.org/wiki:Discussion,, Wiki} is back!
@uref{http://www.gtk.org/,,Gtk.org} is running new @uref{http://www.php.net/,,PHP}
packages now, so the wiki and search facility could be re-enabled. 
In other news, we're working on the next release, so expect 0.6.5 soon.


@newsTitle{Sunday 26 Dec 2004, From the ``security first'' dept.}

Due to a recent
@uref{http://www.hardened-php.net/advisories/012004.txt,,security advisory},
@uref{http://www.php.net/,,PHP} support has been taken down on gtk.org.
So currently the search facility and the beast wiki are not available.
We apologize for the inconvenience and will put stuff back to work once
debian packages the new PHP versions that plug all known security holes.

@newsTitle{Saturday 18 Dec 2004, The ``Clean up your mind'' Release}

BEAST/BSE version 0.6.4 is available from the
@uref{beast-doc://download,,download section}.
@c , here is the @uref{http://www.gnomedesktop.org/article.php?sid=1870,,FootNotes announcement}.

BEAST tarball:
@uref{http://beast.gtk.org/beast-ftp/v0.6/beast-0.6.4.tar.gz,, beast-0.6.4.tar.gz}
@* BEAST patch:
@uref{http://beast.gtk.org/beast-ftp/v0.6/patch-beast-0.6.3-0.6.4.bz2,, patch-beast-0.6.3-0.6.4.bz2}
@* @uref{http://alsa-project.org,, ALSA} driver:
@uref{http://beast.gtk.org/beast-ftp/v0.6/bse-alsa-0.6.4.tar.gz,, bse-alsa-0.6.4.tar.gz}
@* @uref{http://www.portaudio.com/,, PortAudio} driver:
@uref{http://beast.gtk.org/beast-ftp/v0.6/bse-portaudio-0.6.4.tar.gz,, bse-portaudio-0.6.4.tar.gz}

The most important change in this release is probably the reduced CPU consumption due to
lowered scope updating priority. Very convenient are the newly added -n<nicelevel> and
-N (don't renice) options which may be used to adjust or bypass the scheduling priority
raising effects of the suid launcher executables.
A nice bonus in this release are the 
@uref{http://beast.gtk.org/images/screenshots/stwZ04-fft_scopes.png,, FFT based spectrographs},
available for all synthesis
modules with output channels via the context menu.
New with this release is the experimental
@uref{http://www.portaudio.com/,, PortAudio} driver, Stefan Westerfeld put
a lot of work into making this happen, so please give the driver a try and
supply us with @uref{mailto://beast@@gnome.org,, positive and negative feedback}.
And as usual, we've had quite a number of language translation updates,
in particular canadian english, british english, czech, dutch and spanish.
Behind the scenes, we've also been doing some code cleanups, removed libbsw from the
build process and applied GCC-3.4 compilation fixes.
As always, the
@uref{beast-doc://release-news,,NEWS section} has the exact changes, enjoy the new code and
please report bugs to our
@uref{http://mail.gnome.org/mailman/listinfo/beast/,, mailing list}.


@newsTitle{Thursday 18 Nov 2004, The ``Legends may sleep@comma{} but they never die!'' Release}

BEAST/BSE version 0.6.3 and BSE-ALSA version 0.6.3 are available from the
@uref{beast-doc://download,,download section}, here is the
@uref{http://gnomedesktop.org/node/2049,,FootNotes announcement}.

BEAST tarball:
@uref{http://beast.gtk.org/beast-ftp/v0.6/beast-0.6.3.tar.gz,, beast-0.6.3.tar.gz}
@* BEAST patch:
@uref{http://beast.gtk.org/beast-ftp/v0.6/patch-beast-0.6.2-0.6.3.bz2,, patch-beast-0.6.2-0.6.3.bz2}
@* @uref{http://alsa-project.org,, ALSA} driver:
@uref{http://beast.gtk.org/beast-ftp/v0.6/bse-alsa-0.6.3.tar.gz,, bse-alsa-0.6.3.tar.gz}

It took a long time to get this release out, but the new features and the bug fixes
are definitely worth it! As usual, we've had lots of language updates, many GUI
fixes, but also some critical stability fixes. Major new features are: a stereo mixer
for songs, DB meters, MIDI automation and a new sample-and-hold module by Artem Popov.
As always, the
@uref{beast-doc://release-news,,NEWS section} has the exact changes, enjoy the new code and
please report bugs to our
@uref{http://mail.gnome.org/mailman/listinfo/beast/,, mailing list}.


@c ----------------------------- END -----------------------------
@newsTitle{NEWS Archive}
Old news entries are archived in the @uref{beast-doc://oldnews,,Ancient News} section.
@bye
@c  LocalWords:  website uref Alper Ersoy efford sid
