\input texinfo
@c %**start of header
@settitle Downloading BEAST/BSE
@c %**end of header

@include texiutils.texi

@hasbanner{large}
@navigation{navigation.xml}

@unnumbered Where Can I Get @beastbse{}?

Publically consumable releases can be found via ftp:
@uref{ftp://beast.gtk.org/pub/beast/}.
@* Or alternatively via http:
@uref{http://beast.gtk.org/beast-ftp/}.

@anchor{requirements}
@unnumbered Requirements

To get a basic start, you'll also need Gtk+-2.4, a recent version
of the Gtk+-2.4 based GnomeCanvas, Guile-1.6 and the Ogg/Vorbis
Codec libraries.
Though optional, it is a good idea to also have libmad (MPEG audio
decoder library) around when compiling BEAST. Most distributions
already ship these packages, their sources can be found at:

@itemize
@item @uref{ftp://ftp.gnome.org/pub/GNOME/sources/libgnomecanvas/,, GnomeCanvas} (use >= 2.4)
@item @uref{ftp://ftp.gtk.org/pub/gtk/v2.4/,, Gtk+-2.4}
@item @uref{http://www.gnu.org/software/guile/guile.html,, Guile-1.6}
@item @uref{http://www.xiph.org/ogg/vorbis/download/,, Ogg/Vorbis} (at least version 1.0)
@item @uref{http://www.mars.org/home/rob/proj/mpeg/,, MAD} (@bse was developed against libmad-0.14.2)
@end itemize

BEAST also supports the
@uref{http://www.ladspa.org/,, LADSPA} plugin API, so various kinds of
third party plugins can be loaded and executed.
A collection of links to LADSPA plugins is kept at
@uref{http://www.ladspa.org/}.
BEAST will look for LADSPA plugins under @file{lib/ladspa/} of it's own
installation prefix, and in the directories listed in @code{$LADSPA_PATH}.

@unnumbered Packages

Stock
@uref{http://www.debian.org,,Debian}
@uref{http://packages.debian.org/unstable/,,unstable} and
@uref{http://packages.debian.org/testing/,,testing} already ship
recent @uref{http://packages.qa.debian.org/b/beast.html,,beast package}s,
so to install beast, a simple: @example
$ apt-get update
$ apt-get install beast
@end example
should do.

For SuSE,
@uref{mailto://gwaluga@@computerbraxas.de,,Gregor Waluga}
has written a small
@uref{http://linux.waluga.de/beast/beast-install-howto.htm,,HOWTO in english and german}
about installing @beast{} and created the related RPMs.

@uref{mailto://collver1@@comcast.net,,Ben Collver}
is working on a
@uref{http://www.netbsd.org,,NetBSD}
package of @beast{}, it's current development stage can be tracked at
@uref{http://cvs.sourceforge.net/cgi-bin/viewcvs.cgi/pkgsrc-wip/wip/beast/}.


@unnumbered Bleeding Edge

The @beastbse source code tree is hosted on the
@uref{http://www.gnome.org,, GNOME project}'s CVS server.
The module name is @code{beast}. You can get it like this:

@lisp
$ export CVSROOT=':pserver:anonymous@@anoncvs.gnome.org:/cvs/gnome'
$ cvs login # there is no password, just hit return
$ cvs -z3 checkout beast
@end lisp

We recommend that you read the @uref{http://developer.gnome.org/tools/cvs.html,, tutorial}
on using, getting, and building GNOME projects from CVS.

Building from CVS requires additional tools than building the
release tarballs. The reason for this is due to building documentation
and auto-generating code that are included in releases. In particular,
building @beast from CVS now requires the texitheque module hosted in
@uref{http://cvs.freedesktop.org/,, freedesktop.org CVS}. Anonymous
CVS access to freedesktop.org is described on their
@uref{http://www.freedesktop.org/Main/GettingInvolved,, getting involved}
page, however to just get texitheque, you do:

@lisp
$ export CVSROOT=':pserver:anoncvs@@pdx.freedesktop.org:/cvs/texitheque'
$ cvs login # there is no password, just hit return
$ cvs -z3 checkout texitheque
@end lisp

Unlike release tarballs, the CVS version of @beast has to be build
in place, because enabling srcdir!=builddir setups for the CVS version would
unnecessarily complicate the already non-trivial documentation and code
generation rules.
Beware though, CVS versions may behave way less stable than release tarballs,
and on occasions may produce invalid or incompatible @file{.bse} files.

@bye
