\input texinfo   @c emacs: -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@settitle @@uref tests
@c %**end of header

@include teximacros.texi

@docfont{tech}

@doctitle @@uref tests
@docauthor Alper Ersoy
@docauthor Tim Janik
@center @revision{Document revised:}

This document is used as a markup and document generation testbed
and covers a few examples, e.g. for linking to other documents.

@code{@@docfont@{ARG@}} styles:@*
Possible parameters to @code{@@docfont} are: @code{tech}, @code{techstyle},
@code{sans}, @code{sans-serif} for Sans Serif; @code{story},
@code{storystyle}, @code{serif} for Serif; and @code{mono}, @code{monospace},
@code{fixed} for Monospace. Default is @code{serif} on all
outputs.

Link Styles:

HTTP:
@itemize
@item @code{@@uref@{http://www.gtk.org@}}: @uref{http://www.gtk.org}
@item @code{@@uref@{http://www.gtk.org, Gtk+ Home@}}: @uref{http://www.gtk.org, Gtk+ Home}
@item @code{@@uref@{http://www.gtk.org,, Gtk+ Home@}}: @uref{http://www.gtk.org,, Gtk+ Home}
@end itemize

FTP:
@itemize
@item @code{@@uref@{ftp://ftp.gtk.org@}}: @uref{ftp://ftp.gtk.org}
@item @code{@@uref@{ftp://ftp.gtk.org, Gtk+ Ftp Site@}}: @uref{ftp://ftp.gtk.org, Gtk+ Ftp Site}
@item @code{@@uref@{ftp://ftp.gtk.org,, Gtk+ Ftp Site@}}: @uref{ftp://ftp.gtk.org,, Gtk+ Ftp Site}
@end itemize

FILE:
@itemize
@item @code{@@uref@{file:///etc/profile@}}: @uref{file:///etc/profile}
@item @code{@@uref@{file:///etc/profile, Profile@}}: @uref{file:///etc/profile, Profile}
@item @code{@@uref@{file:///etc/profile,, Profile@}}: @uref{file:///etc/profile,, Profile}
@end itemize

MAILTO:
@itemize
@item @code{@@uref@{mailto://timj@@gtk.org@}}: @uref{mailto://timj@@gtk.org}
@item @code{@@uref@{mailto://timj@@gtk.org, Maintainer@}}: @uref{mailto://timj@@gtk.org, Maintainer}
@item @code{@@uref@{mailto://timj@@gtk.org,, Maintainer@}}: @uref{mailto://timj@@gtk.org,, Maintainer}
@end itemize

NEWS:
@itemize
@item @code{@@uref@{news://news.gtk.org/apps.beast@}}: @uref{news://news.gtk.org/apps.beast}
@item @code{@@uref@{news://news.gtk.org/apps.beast, Beast Newsgroup@}}: @uref{news://news.gtk.org/apps.beast, Beast Newsgroup}
@item @code{@@uref@{news://news.gtk.org/apps.beast,, Beast Newsgroup@}}: @uref{news://news.gtk.org/apps.beast,, Beast Newsgroup}
@end itemize

System Man Pages:
@itemize
@item @code{@@uref@{man://1/bash@}}: @uref{man://1/bash}
@item @code{@@uref@{man://1/bash, Bash@}}: @uref{man://1/bash, Bash}
@item @code{@@uref@{man://1/bash,, Bash@}}: @uref{man://1/bash,, Bash}
@end itemize

Beast Man Pages:
@itemize
@item @code{@@uref@{beast-man://3/beast-gxk@}}: @uref{beast-man://3/beast-gxk}
@item @code{@@uref@{beast-man://3/beast-gxk, GUI Extension Kit@}}: @uref{beast-man://3/beast-gxk, GUI Extension Kit}
@item @code{@@uref@{beast-man://3/beast-gxk,, GUI Extension Kit@}}: @uref{beast-man://3/beast-gxk,, GUI Extension Kit}
@end itemize

Beast Documents:
@itemize
@item @code{@@uref@{beast-doc://quickstart@}}: @uref{beast-doc://quickstart}
@item @code{@@uref@{beast-doc://quickstart, Quickstart Guide@}}: @uref{beast-doc://quickstart, Quickstart Guide}
@item @code{@@uref@{beast-doc://quickstart,, Quickstart Guide@}}: @uref{beast-doc://quickstart,, Quickstart Guide}
@end itemize

Beast Documents with anchors:
@itemize
@item @code{@@uref@{beast-doc://quickstart#node-2@}}: @uref{beast-doc://quickstart#node-2}
@item @code{@@uref@{beast-doc://quickstart#node-2, Setting Up Songs@}}: @uref{beast-doc://quickstart#node-2, Setting Up Songs}
@item @code{@@uref@{beast-doc://quickstart#node-2,, Setting Up Songs@}}: @uref{beast-doc://quickstart#node-2,, Setting Up Songs}
@end itemize

Unknown (ie. gopher):
@itemize
@item @code{@@uref@{gopher://gopher.gtk.org@}}: @uref{gopher://gopher.gtk.org}
@item @code{@@uref@{gopher://gopher.gtk.org, Gtk+ Gopher@}}: @uref{gopher://gopher.gtk.org, Gtk+ Gopher}
@item @code{@@uref@{gopher://gopher.gtk.org,, Gtk+ Gopher@}}: @uref{gopher://gopher.gtk.org,, Gtk+ Gopher}
@end itemize

Block Enclosing Commands:

This is a regular paragraph that should be used normal text flow. Text is
filled, no indentation and no change made to the document font.  you get if
you do not use any commands.

@quotation
This is a @code{@@quotation} block. It should be used to indicate text that
is quoted. The text is filled, indented and printed in a roman font by
default.
@end quotation

@example
This is a @code{@@example} block. Illustrate code, commands,
and the like. The text is printed in a fixed-width font,
and indented but not filled.
@end example

@smallexample
This is a @code{@@smallexample} block. Same as @code{@@example}, except
that in TeX this command typesets text in a smaller font.
@end smallexample

@lisp
This is a @code{@@lisp} block. Like @code{@@example}, but specifically
for illustrating Lisp code. The text is printed in a
fixed-width font, and indented but not filled.
@end lisp

@smalllisp
This is a @code{@@smalllisp} block. It is to @code{@@lisp} as @code{@@smallexample}
is to @code{@@example}.
@end smalllisp

@display
This is a @code{@@display} block. Display illustrative text. The text is indented
but not filled, and no font is selected (so, by default, the font is roman).
@end display

@smalldisplay
This is a @code{@@smalldisplay} block. It is to @code{@@display} as @code{@@smallexample}
is to @code{@@example}.
@end smalldisplay

@format
This is a @code{@@format} block. Like @code{@@display} (the text is not
filled and no font is selected), but the text is not indented.
@end format

@smallformat
This is a @code{@@smallformat} block. It is to @code{@@format} as @code{@@smallexample}
is to @code{@@example}.
@end smallformat

@bye
